# SatSimGo
The following project is a packet-level routing multi-process simulator for Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellite networks. The network consists of satellites, and ground stations, that generate traffic. The main purpose of the simulator compared to state-of-the-art similar simulators, such as, Hypatia ([Kassing, 2022](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3419394.3423635)), is to build an easy-to-use, fast, light, configurable, and link-aware system that supports a shell of specified constellation. The simulator achieves the asserted proporties through:

1. **Fast, and Light:** The simulator integrates inter-satellite, and satellite-ground-station astronomical distance calculation with packet queuing and forwarding in a goroutine (Golang lightweight process) to manage thousands of satellite, and ground stations with minimal overhead due to memory efficiency, and small stack size. Moreover, by solving trigonomical astronomical equations, a linear time complexity can be achieved for inter-satellite distances compared to quadratic pair-wise approach.
2. **Configurable:** Unlike StarPerf ([Lai, 2020](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9259357)), and StarryNet([Lai, 2023](https://www.usenix.org/conference/nsdi23/presentation/lai-zeqi)), the simulator allows users to change inter-satellite topology, forwarding tables, constellation specification, packet-level network specifications, such as bandwidths, buffer sizes, and traffic matrix.
3. **Easy-to-use:** Comapred to StarryNet emulator, all the simulation can be executed on a single node, that avoids multiple nodes, and dockers builds. Moreover, instead of going through simulation files for configuration in Hypatia, the design requires a JSON file for consellation architecture, and a set of structred csv files for ISL topology, ground station locations, traffic matrix, and forwarding files.
4. **Link-aware:**: One of the most critical misdesign of the Hypatia, and StarryNet([issue 21](https://github.com/SpaceNetLab/StarryNet/issues/21)) is the constant datarate during the simulation while the changing distances between satellites, and ground stations affect the datarate due to the alternating signal-to-noise ratio. The simulator considers the calculated distance based on the location of satellites, and ground stations, and uses Shannon-Hartley theorem to model the link's datarate.

## Requirements
